welcome to another video
alright guys the first scam that
we're going to be looking at
today is what i call the
daylight robbery scam and it's
actually really disgusting and
you're going to see a minute
exactly just how bad it is
so in there these places in
Beijing and well in all the big
cities in China anyway where
people were tourists especially
a bust into go and buy things
right
so this place silk street is
very well known in Beijing
there's a place for people to go
and buy all sorts of things like
silk and Chinese knickknacks and
you know shit and shoes and
clothing and all that kind of
thing and people think that
they're getting a good deal
because oh well you're in China
and things are supposed to be
cheap in China
anyway let's go and find out
just exactly how much we're
going to get overcharged for an
item that we already know the
price of Rights a single can i
have just basically gone in and
there was a helmet that I know
across 210 RB he went in there
to ask how much it costs
she gave him a discounted price
of 999 army not getting a deal
here
No ok let's rewind a little bit
the reason we chose this helmet
is because I actually own a
couple of them and have bought
them before of town bar and its
cost me a hundred and ten R&B
usually and now as you can see
as you saw from that screenshot
actually only costs a hundred
and five are being have just
looked it up now
seaman went in there and he
negotiated and asked how much it
would cost the first price that
she gave him was 1088 or
something like this which is
ridiculous
and the final price she was
willing to offer was 999 when he
left he was furious she just you
know what really wasn't happy
with him because he after a
really low price
anyway we decided that I would
go into a different shop selling
the exact same helmet and
pretend to be a really really
dumb tourists and just see how
much they would charge me
grab the camera she could do
this here you kick that it
ok first first of all it had a
price tag like I said 1,200
ok she works out the calculator
first price you gave me was 2218
you win
2280 then when she saw that I
wasn't interested in it then she
was like how much you want to
pay how much you want to pay
then went down to like 1200
everything then went down to 800
as i was trying to push my way
did you see other way puts me
from not leaving like they're
saying be nice be nice and make
corn me they're like shopping in
there is ridiculous
then she's like okay 200 okay
150 years the last night she
gave me as well just wanted for
the 2280 down 250 army of course
we know that they're going to go
for that price to still make a
profit but nobody's gonna ask
that
yeah that's pretty hard great
good fine
yeah guys done if you want to
come shopping a place I just
feel a little bit informed
no you just don't actually get
be informed otherwise you're
going to get ripped off right
guys the next scan we're going
to talk about is probably the
most popular scam in beijing and
shanghai for that matter and
it's called the teahouse scam
with can be a problem
I'm from England even give us
that's right you from the
mountain yes I'm from London are
good guesses yes
how about you where you're wrong
on this yet no no oh yeah I
heard about her
yeah the story
that sounds very interesting
look up flat right now I just
want to take some pictures here
and then no plans all the hustle
and hope and then yeah okay yeah
very hard but little parrot on
where you are back at someone
with a cool drink
are you want to try to drink
yeah it is important i want to
do part sounds good is all about
this is a good places to have a
drink and talk together
oh that's that's okay i think i
have to meet a friend much later
so maybe don't have time to open
up with him and that's about 10
minutes
your map here
really have the tools of coffee
now you have coffee here that's
nice having that coffee today
yet again and again and clapping
well that's that's okay I guess
I'm a little busy i'm just going
to take some photos
that's why I have my camera but
thank you thank you very much
bye bye
fail
right since since they failed in
their scams either now currently
walking back to the subway
like what not the summer but the
entrance so let me get those two
so I didn't go along with them
so now they're heading back to
see if I can spot another
gullible looking tourists
yeah that's anything that's
exactly how these scams happen
right so there it is guys
you will be approached by people
speaking English which is first
of all very rare you don't get
chinese people that just speak
such good English randomly
approaching you on the street it
normally doesn't happen and
especially these women they're
middle-aged and that sort of age
group they don't speak English
at all in China to the younger
people usually do and usually
actually it's younger women that
all approach tourists or people
they think are tourists like
myself but I was approached by
two fairly ugly middle-aged
women here but doesn't seem to
matter their whole mo is this
going to approach you they say
they're also tourists there are
also busy walking around and
they usually try to chat to you
about your hometown or something
make you feel a little more
comfortable and the whole idea
is to get you into their friends
tea house or the TSA work for
see the tea house or a coffee
shop or a restaurant or Katie or
whatever and once you're inside
and you've ordered something to
drink that's when they nail you
like there'll be some catch will
be something like the drink that
you ordered says 20 R&B on the
menu but its twenty R&B percept
or some such thing or their
opener bottle and say it's
really expensive bottle of wine
or whiskey or something in and
try to tragedy 10,000 R&B
I've got videos about this on my
channel so you can go and look
at them I'll leave the links in
the description below so you can
hear more about this scam in
detail but either way
warning bells if they come to
you and start talking English to
you and if they start talking
about going anywhere
just just ignore them like
seriously that's what they do
that's their job they hang
around the tourist places to do
this so be warned this is a
really bad scam and you can
really end you up in a lot of
trouble
as you can see by following the
links below
now that being said I don't want
you to be put off being friendly
to local people because as you
can see in this little time
lapse seem look at myself when
we went there on a different day
were approached by tons of
Chinese tourists who just come
to see the Tiananmen Square and
they wanted to take photos with
us but I'm going to tell you
that none of those people taking
photos with us in that time
lapse could speak English they
all came up and just kind of
gesture that they wanted to take
photos or spoke Chinese to us we
can understand Chinese
none of the Masters has started
a conversation and you know what
to do
go anywhere with us or anything
like that so yes you can feel
free to take photos with locals
and not everybody who approaches
you is going to be a scammer
but it's those ones that
approach you and start talking
to you and in depth and asking
what you doing in and how long
you've been in China and that
kind of thing those are the ones
that you should definitely avoid
no the guy didn't get to this is
the first time to ever come to
China we both came here
yesterday
thank you nice come here thank
you very much
from a religious state New York
oh not city or state just a
great time
cool see our journey to the
Terracotta Army yeah I heard
about that
nice great great I think that we
can sure you can get something
you don't get super cool right
guys now that clip you've just
seen was the next scan we're
going to talk about but before
we talk about it i want you to
notice the the similarities in
the conversation that he had he
asked way from and he said he
was freed from Xian you know the
place of the terracotta warriors
which is the exact same place
those two women had told me the
day before and i can tell you
this much they certainly didn't
look like they came from she and
neither did he to be honest and
I think this is just a point of
conversation they bring up
because they know most
foreigners know about the
Terracotta Warriors in Xi'an
anyway this scam was an art
gallery scam which is something
very similar you'll get usually
young people saying there are
students and they want you to
come and take a look at their
little art exhibition will come
and look at their art gallery
something like that and they
will take you into some little
room or some small little art
gallery and try to sell you
you know really cheap
reproduction prints for a lot of
money
something that should only cost
about 20 r and be there trying
to sell for like 300 400
thousand RB and they will also
like give you a free gift and
then make you feel guilty and if
you kind of tried to back out of
the deal they'll they'll kind of
bring lots of people in there
and kind of put the pressure on
you and all that so once again
just if anyone is trying to
invite you anywhere just kind of
you know if anyone's coming in
speaking to at length in English
kind of trying to you know talk
to a lot you know that it's a
problem
now there is one more scam i'd
like to tell you all about and I
didn't get any footage
hence me sitting in front of the
camera now and that is the
rickshaw scam
now picture this you arrive a
tenement square or temple of
heaven or whatever place in
Beijing and someone comes up to
you and hand you a little card
or something with a picture of a
ritual and they say oh I would
like to take you around hundred
and fifty R&B or a hundred R&B
or something and i'll take you
around the all the cool sites
and you know the back alleys and
stuff and you think cool great
idea that's very picturesque
that's you know very authentic I
want to sit in the ritual and be
taken around
don't ever ever take one of
these rickshaws okay first of
all I've never heard a good
thing about these rituals I only
constantly hear how people are
scammed and how it happens is
usually they'll target
you know sort of the groups of
girls or you know people that
are obvious foreigners
they'll get you in the direction
or they'll take it down to some
hutong which hutong is kind of
like a an old village area
these alleyways which you'll see
in my upcoming beijing video
anyway
and what they'll do is they'll
take you to a dodgy one in the
middle of nowhere
don't stop the rickshaw and they
will demand more money or
they'll say oh I didn't mean
30 RBI men 300r be some sort of
nonsense like this and they
leave the star to threaten you
or they all kind of abandoned
you there or they may even pull
out to like a meat cleaver or
something
I've heard various different
stories but from actual friends
of my not secondhand stories and
it's true you can just google it
you'll see it's all over the
place
don't ever get in one of these
guys rituals
ok and and i'll tell you what
happened see more can i after
this art gallery guy tried to
scam us we walked in and this
rickshaw guy kept following us
and just telling us random
information like what time
parks closed and open you know
because he's trying to get in
there with him some useful
information and we kept saying
no it's ok we don't want to ride
in the ritual it's okay we don't
need it we don't need anything
but it kept following us
following us and he wouldn't
stop talking talking talking
talking until finally both
seemed ok myself in Chinese said
in fluent Chinese that's ok we
really don't need it we don't
have time we're just looking
around
as soon as he heard of speaking
Chinese he shut up he literally
just
shut up turned around and just
walked away straight away so you
can see you soon as he knew that
we knew what we were talking
about and that we could speak
Chinese obviously we're not just
gullible tourists he
straightaway left so no Rick
short and that pretty much
covers it guys
it is all about common sense
okay you're traveling in a
strange country don't follow
strangers into strange places
definitely don't ok especially
if you're a tourist spot
all right literally that's the
worst thing you can do anywhere
around tournament square Temple
of Heaven any of those kind of
places that are known for being
good or great wall anything like
that these these big tourist the
area's don't follow strangers
ok and if they start coming and
talking at length to you in
English and following you around
and stuff you know that they're
trying to scare me
ok however like i said be
prepared to have just normal
tourists wanting to take photos
with you there's nothing wrong
with that and you know you may
actually meet some genuine
friends but there is a litmus
test if someone is talking to
you and you think there may be
genuine you invite them out for
a coffee or something at a place
that you know like maybe a
starbucks around the corner or
place near your hotel or
something
if they're willing to go and
follow you into a place of your
own choosing
then they're probably ok but
don't later on go follow them
into some other place you know
just go sit down have a coffee
with them chat with it maybe you
make a friend but guys please be
careful especially you single
guys traveling alone
that's it for this video guys
that's the beijing scams
all done it's pretty much all of
them sure there are others that
have slipped through the crack
but stick around because i'll be
making some more beijing videos
because I've got lots of good
footage and i'll see you in the
next video
until then guys as always stay
off
yeah